Policy # 5.23
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 07/27/90
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Office of Responsibility: AG
Page 1 of 2
SUBJECT: PUBLIC MEETINGS
I. PURPOSE: To define the public meetings policy of the University.
II. POLICY:
A. The provisions of Chapter 4 of Title 52, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as
completely recodified in 1977 and last amended in 1987, are as follows:
B. Declaration of public policy. In enacting this chapter, the legislature finds and
declares that the state, its agencies and political subdivisions, exist to aid in
the conduct of the people's business. It is the intent of the law that their
actions be taken openly and that their deliberations be conducted openly.
C. Definitions. As used in this chapter:
1. "Meeting" means the convening of a public body, with a quorum
present, whether in person or by means of electronic equipment, for
the purpose of discussing or acting upon a matter over which the
public body has jurisdiction or advisory power. This chapter shall not
apply to chance meetings. "Convening," as used in this subsection,
means the calling of a meeting of a public body by a person or persons
authorized to do so for the express purpose of discussing or acting
upon a subject over which that public body has jurisdiction.
2. "Public body" means any administrative, advisory, executive, or
legislative body of the state or its political subdivisions which consists
of two or more persons that expends, disburses, or is supported in
whole or in part by tax revenue and which is vested with the authority
to make decisions regarding the public's business. "Public body"
does not include any political party, group, or caucus nor any
conference committee, rules or sifting committee of the legislature.
3. "Quorum" means a simple majority of the membership of a public
body, unless otherwise defined by applicable law, but a quorum does
not include a meeting of two elected officials by themselves when no
action, either formal or informal, is taken on a subject over which
these elected officials have jurisdiction.
D. Meetings open to the public. -- Exceptions. Every meeting is open to the
public unless closed pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 6.
Policy # 5.23
SOUTHERN UTAH UNIVERSITY Date Approved: 07/27/90
Policies and Procedures Date Amended:
Office of Responsibility: AG
Page 2 of 2
SUBJECT: PUBLIC MEETINGS
E. Closed meeting held upon vote of members -- Business -- Reasons for
meeting recorded. A closed meeting may be held upon the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of the members of the public body present at an open meeting for
which notice is given pursuant to paragraph 7; provided a quorum is present.
No closed meeting is allowed except as to matters exempted under section 6;
provided, no ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or appointment
shall be approved at a closed meeting. The reason or reasons for holding a
closed meeting and the vote, either for or against the proposition to hold such
a meeting, cast by each member by name shall be entered on the minutes of
the meeting.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require any meeting to be closed
to the public.
F. Purposes of closed meetings -- Chance meetings and social meetings excluded
-- Disruption of meetings.
1. A closed meeting may be held pursuant to paragraph 5 for any of the
following purposes:
a. Discussion of the character, professional competence, or
physical or mental health of an individual;
b. Strategy sessions with respect to collective bargaining,
litigation, or purchase of real property;
c. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel or
devices; and
d. Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal
misconduct.
2. This chapter shall not apply to any chance meeting or a social meeting.
No chance meeting or social meeting shall be used to circumvent this
chapter.
3. This chapter shall not prohibit the removal of any person who willfully
disrupts a meeting to the extent that orderly conduct is seriously
compromised.